---
title: Security 
---

[uSync.Publisher](../introduction/publisher) is sending your content and media between Umbraco instances, and as such security and integrity of the messages been sent is paramount. 

uSync.Publisher signs all communications with a [HMAC authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC) key using the AppId and AppKey settings from the `uSync.Publish.Config` file. Alongside this you should include some basic security configuration to secure your sites. 

## Use HTTPS
While uSync.Publisher doesn't force HTTPS communication between Umbraco instances it is strongly recommended that you do use HTTPS protocols when setting up server addresses. You can [configure Umbraco to force Https for all back office communication](https://our.umbraco.com/Documentation/Reference/Security/use-https#set-usessl-configuration-option) in the `appsettings.json` file.

## Use Unique AppId/AppKey Values
When uSync.Publisher first runs it will generate a AppId and AppKey value for the config. It is recommended you then use this value to communicate between servers (making sure all servers have the same config). **Do not use blank or short AppId/AppKey values.**

From v10.7/12.2 you can add server specific keys in the appsettings.json file. 


``` json title="appsettings.json"
"uSync" : {
    "Publisher" : {
        "Servers": {
            "SERVER_NAME" : {
                "AppKey": "<YOUR KEY>",
                "AppId": "<YOUR APPID>"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
:::tip
You can if you choose have different AppId/AppKey pairs for each configured server, while this is a slightly more complex configuration it does allow you to have greater control of what can send where.
:::

<!-- ## Secure the Publisher Route -->
